# Coming from NodeJS

Here are some similarities and differences you can expect when transitioning
from Node.js to Scala:

## Build Tools

In Node.js, you may be used to working with build tools like npm or yarn, which
manage dependencies and build your project. Similarly, in Scala, sbt is the most
commonly used build tool. It allows you to manage dependencies, compile your
code, and run tests, among other things. Like npm, sbt uses a declarative build
file (build.sbt) to specify your project's configuration and dependencies.

## Package Managers

In Node.js, npm is also a package manager that allows you to install and manage
dependencies for your project. Similarly, in Scala, sbt can also manage
dependencies by downloading them from repositories like Maven Central. You can
specify dependencies in your build.sbt file, and sbt will automatically download
and cache them for you.

## Dependency Caching

In Node.js, npm uses a caching system to speed up dependency installation by
storing packages in a local cache. Similarly, sbt also caches dependencies in a
local cache, which can be configured to store them in a centralized cache. This
can greatly speed up the build process and make dependency management more
efficient.

## Project Source Tree Structure

In Node.js, you may be used to organizing your project's source code in a
directory structure that separates different concerns. For example, you may have
a src directory for your application code, a test directory for your tests, and
so on. Similarly, in Scala, a typical project will have a directory structure
like this:

```
project/
  build.properties
src/
  main/
    resources/
    scala/
  test/
    resources/
    scala/
```

The project directory contains configuration files for sbt, and the src
directory contains your project's source code. main and test directories contain
the source code and resources for your main application and tests, respectively.

### Hello World Project Structure

Here is an example of a "Hello World" application in Node.js:

```
hello-world/
  package.json
  index.js
```

And here is an example of a "Hello World" application in Scala:

```
hello-world/
  build.sbt
  project/
    build.properties
  src/
    main/
      resources/
      scala/
        HelloWorld.scala
    test/
      resources/
      scala/
        HelloWorldSpec.scala
```

In this example, the HelloWorld.scala file contains the application code, while
the HelloWorldSpec.scala file contains a test for the HelloWorld class. The
build.sbt file specifies the project's configuration and dependencies.
